.TH GPIO-ADMIN "1" "May 2012" "Quick2Wire" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gpio-admin \- export or unexport a GPIO pin and make it accessible to the user only.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpio-admin export
\fIgpio-pin-number\fR
\fI(pullup|pulldown)\fR
.br
.B gpio-admin unexport
\fIgpio-pin-number\fR
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Exports or unexports a GPIO pin and allows only the user to control it.
.PP
\fBgpio export\fR \fIn\fR \fI(pullup|pulldown)\fR
.RS 4
exports pin \fIn\fR as files under \fB/sys/devices/virtual/gpio\fR\fIn\fR/ 
and makes the pin's control files readable and writeable by the user only. If the 
optional third parameter is supplied, set the pullup or pulldown state of the pin.
.RE
.PP
\fBgpio unexport\fR \fIn\fR 
.RS 4
unexports pin \fIn\fR, removing the directory \fB/sys/devices/virtual/gpio\fR\fIn\fR/.
.RE

.SH NOTE
.PP
Pins are identified by their SOC pin numbers, \fInot\fR the header pin numbers.
For example, on the Raspberry Pi header pin 3 is mapped to SOC pin number 0, 5 to 1, etc.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Nat Pryce
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report gpio-admin bugs at <http://github.com/quick2wire/quick2wire-gpio-admin/issues>.

.SH SOURCE
Source for gpio-admin is available from: <http://github.com/quick2wire/quick2wire-gpio-admin>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2012 Quick2Wire Ltd. <http://quick2wire.com/>
.PP
You may use this library under the terms of either the MIT License or
the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) Version 3.  
See <http://license.quick2wire.com> for more information.
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
